---
title: Introduction
title_url: Introduction
id_html: intro
image:
  url: img/intro.jpeg
thumbnail: img/intro.jpeg
excerpt_separator: <!-- more -->
---
Rising rates of obesity in industrialized societies have been blamed on an increased consumption of foods having high percentages of refined sugar and fat. Minorities and the poor are at a disadvantage when it comes to the adoption of healthier eating habits. Moreover, low-income neighborhoods have been observed to attract more fast-food outlets and convenience stores as opposed to full-service supermarkets and grocery stores. Even though healthier and more nutritious food options may be present as purchasing choices, their cost is often significantly higher and might be prohibitive for working class people. The rapid rise in food prices has hence helped demonstrate that healthier diets are no longer merely a matter of choice.<br /><br />

In this article we aim at quantifying the healthiness of food items available in France, as well as exploring the links between the healthiness of the available food items and the socio-economic level according to different subdivisions of the French territory.
<!-- more -->

For our analysis, we relied on data from [OpenFoodFacts](https://fr.openfoodfacts.org/) for the available food items, along with their nutritional informations; and data from the [National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies](https://www.insee.fr/) (INSEE or Institut National de la Statistique et des Études Économiques in French) for the repartition of the income throughout France, along with several other economic indicators. All the data used is publicly available.
