---
title: Food quality
title_url: Food
id_html: food
image: img/nutriscore-a.png
bottom_images:
  - url: img/portfolio/nutrigrade_hist.pdf
    alt: Range of the nutrition score with highlighted A
thumbnail: img/nutri_distribution.png
question: How can we combine nutritional values such as sugar or fat content, energy and nutrition score in order to acquire a metric that indicates the obesogenic level of each food item ?
excerpt_separator: <!-- more -->
---
Food grading involves the inspection, assessment and sorting of various foods regarding quality, freshness, legal conformity and market value. Four different nutrition scores for each food item were exploited for our analysis, the nutrition score, the nutrition grade, the calorie density (kcal per serving) and the calorie deviation.

<!-- more -->
The nutrition score has values between -15 and 40, going from healthy to unhealthy. For each food item, points are added for nutritional features considered as unhealthy such as high energy or high content of saturated fat, sugar and sodium. Points are deducted for healthy nutritional features such as a high content of fruits, vegetables and nuts, fiber and proteins.


The nutrition grade derives from the nutrition score. It classifies products into five discrete categories, A to E (healthy to unhealthy). For more detailed information about the nutrition scores available on OpenFoodFacts, we encourage to visit their [page on nutrition scores](https://fr.openfoodfacts.org/nutriscore).

In addition to these already available food grades, we introduce two more nutrition scores: *calorie density* (the calories per serving) and *calorie deviation* (the deviation from the expected nutrients repartition in food items for a healthy diet). Obesity is often linked with the density in calories of the ingested food items. The calorie density metric describes how largely a product is packed with calories. The calorie deviation metric describes the deviation from a balanced diet induced by the consumption of a product.


Furthermore, nutritional standards state that among the calories that are consumed in a day, 21% should come from proteins, 53% from carbohydrates and 26% from fat. The calorie deviation metric is a deviation from this standard for each product. It aims at observing whether the products follow a healthy calorie distribution.


We plotted the distribution of the nutrition grades for all known products in France. And the results are striking: available products are in general unhealthy!

HISTOGRAM

The nutrition grade histogram shows that most of the products are labeled with a 3 or higher, which indicates that healthy products are rare. 

The nutrition score histogram shows two peaks, one where the products are around 0 (i.e. nutrition grade of 2) and the other one with products around 15 (nutrition grade of 4). Most products are however well above 0 (i.e. nutrition grade of 2 or higher), hence the lack of healthy products is reinforced. 

The calorie density and deviation histograms follow an inverse power law. Most products have a low calorie density and deviation. 

