---
title: Socio-economic level and geographic characteristics
id_html: socio
image: img/mutual-information-socio.jpg
thumbnail: img/mutual-information-socio.jpg
question: What criteria should be used to separate the regions with different socio-economic environments ?
description: In order to measure poverty, several methods are usually applied. Firstly, comparing the median revenue of of different subdivisions of a territory allows the identification of the poorer areas. This can be done by using the average revenue as well, although this last indicator is prone to misrepresent the economic level of the area since it can be increased by a few wealthy inhabitants. Additionally, one can use the poverty rate, which describes the percentage of people whose revenue is below 60% of the median revenue. Finally, a third indicator can be based on the origin of the income of the inhabitants of the area. The origins are namely professional activity, social aid, patrimony, or retirement pension. 
---
In order to determine whether or not these indicators are equivalent, the dependency between the variables is measured using Mutual Information (MI). MI is equal to zero if and only if two random variables are independent, and higher values mean higher dependency.

By comparing all the above listed economic markers, we observe that there is a high dependency between them all. By retaining only one feature, all the other features can be deducted. The Median Revenue per city was hence retained as our socio-economic marker.

// Viz ?

Moreover, we need to take into account the territorial level at which the analysis needs to be conducted. The analysis was focused on Metropolitan France. Indeed, some French regions are located in the Pacific and the Caribbean. Seeing that our analysis examines the eating habits and economical disparities, using a fairly culturally homogeneous territory seems imperative. Corsica was removed from the dataset due to the fact that there was only one product being sold in that region within the dataset.

There are four types of territorial subdivisions, ranging from largest to smallest: regions, departments, arrondissements and communes. The analysis was conducted at each of the subdivisional levels.
