---
title: Discussion
title_url: Discussion
id_html: discussion
image: img/link-food-economy.jpeg
thumbnail: img/link-food-economy.jpeg
question: What can we conclude?
excerpt_separator: <!-- more -->
---
Discussion of our results.
 
<!-- more -->


The goal of this project was to explore the relation between income and food availability in order to find an intermediate link between obesity and poverty. As we have shown, this problem is not without complexity. 

Within the scope of our analysis we have found only two significant ways in which a nutritional feature and a poverty indicator are linked. At the arrondissement level, there is an inverse correlation between the median revenue and the median energy (in kcal per 100g) of the available food items. In addition to that, there is, at the region level, an inverse correlation between the median revenue and the median calorie density (in kcal per serving) of the available food items. We also found a significant positive correlation between the median nutritional grade and the median revenue. However, the nutritional grade being composed of wide discrete categories, this relationship is meaningless since all regions but one have the same grade.

The two negative correlations that were found support our thesis, 

1. Results + critique

1.1. two significant correlations found: 

1.1.1. Arrondissement level: inverse correlation between revenue and energy (kcal per 100g)

1.1.2. Region level: inverse correlation between revenue and calorie density (kcal per serving size

1.2. Both support our thesis

1.2.1. Poor regions tend to have more caloric food items available than rich regions.

1.2.2. Calorie is linked with obesity: we might have found an intermediate link between obesity and poverty

1.3. These correlations do not hold at each geographic level

1.3.1. Simpson’s paradox

1.3.2. To be significant, these correlations should hold at ????

1.4. We mostly have products that come from low middle class regions. Since we mostly have unhealthy products too, the tendencies evaluated in our dataset are mostly the tendencies of the middle class. We do not have enough data on very rich nor very poor regions. This could be a reason why we did not find results. 

These results probably do not indicate an actual link between wealth and healthy food availability

2. Dataset criticism

2.1. We do not have information on where most food items are sold

2.2. When the selling location is not null, it does not have a standard format

2.3. Most of the selling locations are situated in France, which is why we chose to conduct our analysis for this country instead of another one.

2.4. Most food items have incomplete information, which means that some particular features (like fruits and vegetables content, serving size and so on) are rarely filled.

3. What could we have changed?

3.1. Having had a suitable dataset for the task, it would have been worth to conduct our analysis on the US.

3.2. We were trying to find an intermediate link between obesity and poverty. This analysis could be augmented by obesity data.

3.3. Finally, more significant results could have been found with more extensive data on food products availability. Indeed, most information on our present products was missing, which resulted in an even smaller dataset. Moreover, knowing that our dataset includes mostly products from low middle class areas, the analysis of the links between wealth and food availability cannot be complete. 